Ryan Taylor

Matt Zachreson

GESCI206

Paper 2,

Hearing and Sound.

As a human we have tthe ability to hear sounds around us. It is possible to heathrough our ears. The ear consists of three parts. The outer, the middle and inner ear. The outer ear has a large auricle that helps to collect sounds around us. Which then channels the sound waves down the tube which is called the auditory canal. Once the sound waves flow down the canal they then hit a membrane called the tympanic membrane. This item is known as the ear drum. This membrane vibrates moving back and forth much like a speaker or microphone diaphragm, which is part of the middle ear.

The vibrations on the diaphragm or membrane then moves or vibrates the malleus or hammer inside the ear. The Malleus or Hammer along with the Incus and stapes are referred to as the auditory ossicles all move or vibrate as the sound vibrations move from the membrane to the malleus to the incus and then to the stapes. The vibrations of the stapes cause motion on the liquid at the oval window in the Scala vestibule of the inner ear. This movement is a mechanical movement that passes vibrations through the vestibular membrane and enter the cochlear duct at the endolymph.

Inside the Cochlear, the basilar membrane moves, and the hair cells respond based on the type of waves entering into the ear. Inside the cochlear, the receptor known as the Corti is where the hair cell is located and as the sound vibrations pass into the inner ear the cells are bent or pulled based on the frequency of the vibrations

As per the article “How the ear works” the frequency impacted cells cause electrochemical impulses to be sent down the cochlear nerve to the vestibulocochlear nerve and then on to the auditory cortex in the temporal lobe in the brain as they bend or straighten. This is what we call or call the process of audible sound.

For those who’s cochlear parts malfunction, it is extremely difficult to help them hear. However, today with Cochlear implants we are able to recreate or provide ways for people to hear again.

The ear is small and yet so critical to our day to day functioning. From conversation to music and video. We need sound to help us learn and communicate.

The sound waves that we hear are again important to understand as they are not visible to the eye. Yet, they can be rather irritating and necessary. The sound is made by objects vibrating at a specific frequency that then moves through the air. This movement is air particles knocking against each other like a wave moving through water. Waves are affected by other wave movements, such as other sounds.

Sound waves move through the air at about 343 meters per second at 20 degrees Celsius. The temperature it is important as it can impact the speed at which the air particles respond or move. Each sound we hear is a vibration of an object at a specific frequency. The higher the frequency the higher the pitch of the sound. The lower the frequency the lower the pitch of the sound. Bass is from about 20 Hz and Higher octave sounds are up to 20kHz.

As one listens to music, we can figure out the vibration of a string or instrument based on the pitch or tone of the music. Our cochlear is hairs convert the tone frequency into a signal that our brain can interpret and that makes us either happy, uplifted, sad or relaxed based on the types of sounds we hear.

The source of my article is

“How the Ear Works.” Diagnosis 101, diagnosis101.welchallyn.com/otoscopy/educational-topics/how-the-ear-works/.
